Add quickstart testing docs  for collections (#77290)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/community/collection_contributors/collection_integration_about.rst

.. _collection_integration_tests_about:

> Understanding integration tests

Reviewer: Hey @samccann, I think this heading can be more descriptive of the content. Which can help in search and overall read.

Something like **Understanding integration tests for collections**

What do you think?

Author: sounds good. I'll make that change.

=================================

.. note::

  Some collections do not have integration tests.

Integration tests are functional tests of modules and plugins.
With integration tests, we check if a module or plugin satisfies its functional requirements. Simply put, we check that features work as expected and users get the outcome described in the module or plugin documentation.

There are :ref:`two kinds of integration tests <collections_adding_integration_test>` used in collections:

* integration tests that use Ansible roles
* integration tests that use ``runme.sh``.

This section focuses on integration tests that use Ansible roles.

> Integration tests check modules with playbooks that invoke those modules. The tests pass standalone parameters and their combinations, check what the module or plugin reports with the :ref:`assert <ansible_collections.ansible.builtin.assert_module>` module, and the actual state of the system after each task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration tests check modules with playbooks that invoke those modules. The tests pass standalone parameters and their combinations; check what the module or plugin reports with the :ref:`assert <ansible_collections.ansible.builtin.assert_module>` module, and the actual state of the system after each task.
```

Reviewer 2: I think the comma is more appropriate here as it's all about what the tests do

Integration test example
-------------------------

> Let's say we want to test the ``postgresql_user`` module invoked with the ``name`` parameter. We expect that the module will both create a user based on the provided value of the ``name`` parameter and will report that the system state has changed. We cannot rely on only what the module reports. To be sure that the user has been created, we query our database with another module to see if the user exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we want to test the ``postgresql_user`` module invoked with the ``name`` parameter. We expect that the module will create a user based on the provided value of the ``name`` parameter and report that the system state has changed. We cannot rely on only what the module reports. To be sure that the user has been created, we query our database with another module to see if the user exists.
```

Using 'both' and "will' is repetitive

.. code-block:: yaml

  - name: Create PostgreSQL user and store module's output to the result variable
    postgresql_user:
      name: test_user
    register: result

  - name: Check the module returns what we expect
    assert:
      that:
        - result is changed

  - name: Check actual system state with another module, in other words, that the user exists
    postgresql_query:
      query: SELECT * FROM pg_authid WHERE rolename = 'test_user'
    register: query_result

  - name: We expect it returns one row, check it
    assert:
      that:
        - query_result.rowcount == 1

Details about integration tests
--------------------------------

The basic entity of an Ansible integration test is a ``target``. The target is an :ref:`Ansible role <playbooks_reuse_roles>` stored in the ``tests/integration/targets`` directory of the collection repository. The target role contains everything that is needed to test a module.

> The names of targets contain the module or plugin name that they test. Target names that start with ``setup_`` are usually executed as dependencies before module and plugin targets start execution. See :ref:`collection_creating_integration_tests` for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The target names contain the module or plugin name that they test. Target names that start with ``setup_`` are usually executed as dependencies before module and plugin targets start execution. See :ref:`collection_creating_integration_tests` for details.
```

Reviewer 3: How about it is structured as “target names”..
​​Seems shorter and straight to the point, I think

> To run integration tests, we use the ``ansible-test`` utility that is included in the ``ansible-core`` and ``ansible`` packages. See :ref:`collection_run_integration_tests` for details. After you finish your integration tests, see to :ref:`collection_quickstart` to learn how to submit a pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run integration tests, we use the ``ansible-test`` utility included in the ``ansible-core`` and ``ansible`` packages. See :ref:`collection_run_integration_tests` for details. After you finish your integration tests, see to :ref:`collection_quickstart` to learn how to submit a pull request.
```

No need for "that is" it introduces passive voice and makes it redundant for the sentence

.. _collection_integration_prepare:

Preparing for integration tests
================================

To prepare for developing integration tests:

#. :ref:`Set up your local environment <collection_prepare_environment>`.

#. Determine if integration tests already exist.

  .. code-block:: bash

> 

Reviewer 4: To identify that the next line is a command and it is associated with the code-block is there any need for the space in between? The indentation is not consistence with other code-blocks.

Someone might find it confusing to understand those are commands expected to be run by the user.

Author: The `code-block` does seem to require a blank line between it and the actual code. That said, you are correct that the indentation overall isn't consistent so I'll fix that across the files in a separate commit. Thanks for spotting that!

      ansible-test integration --list-targets

> If a collection already has integration tests, they are stored in ``tests/integration/targets/*`` subdirectories of the collection repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a collection already has integration tests, you can find them stored in the collection repository's ``tests/integration/targets/*`` subdirectories.
```
Made this suggestion to eliminate passive voice.

If you use ``bash`` and the ``argcomplete`` package is installed with ``pip`` on your system, you can also get a full target list.

.. code-block:: shell

>   ansible-test integration <tab><tab>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  ansible-test integration <tab></tab>
```

Reviewer 5: My suggested change was based on my basic knowledge of HTML, lol.
I just read the docs only to see that's actually a command used to obtain a full list of bash users in Ansible. Getting to learn about this more from my mistake.

>   ansible-test integration <tab><tab>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. . code-block: : shell
     ansible-test integration <tab><tab>
```

Reviewer 4: This is to show some clarity to my first comment, if consistency is been applied and every other code-block would be indented like this then, I won't have made the mistake of thinking that was an HTML tag that requires a closing tag.
